The online laboratory: conducting experiments in a real labor market
Table 1 Acceptance of
paragraph transcription task by
offer amount

Amount

Offers

Offers

Percentage

(cents)

accepted

rejected

accepted

1

34

37

0.48

5

57

18

0.76

15

74

5

0.94

25

71

6

0.92

with R 2 = 0.13 and sample size N = 302, with pi = pi  1. This offsetting transformation makes the regression intercept interpretable as the predicted mean offer
uptake when p = 1. Of course, a linear probability model only applies over a limited range, as it ultimately predicts uptake rates greater than 1. While we could use
a general linear model, it makes more sense to tie the problem more closely to our
theoretical model of how workers make decisions.
Presumably workers reservation wagesthe minimum amount they are willing
to accept to perform some taskhave some unknown distribution with cumulative
density function F . Workers will choose to accept offers to do more work if the
offered wages exceed their individual reservation wages. For a task taking t seconds
and paying pi cents, then yi = 1  {pi /t > i }, where i is the reservation wage.
If we assume that F is the log-normal distribution, the distribution parameters that
maximize the likelihood of observing our data are  = 0.113 and  = 1.981. Given
the average completion time on the first paragraph, the median reservation wage is
$0.14/hour.
3.6 Summary
Each of these replication studies was completed on MTurk in fewer than 48 hours,
with little effort required on our part. The cost was also far less than that of standard
lab experiments, at an average cost of less than $1 per subject. However, even this low
per-subject cost vastly understates the comparative efficiency of online experiments.
We entirely avoided both the costs associated with hiring full-time assistants and the
costs of maintaining a laboratory. We also avoided the high initial costs of setting up
a laboratory.
Of course, low costs would be irrelevant if the results were not informative. And
yet, despite the low stakes and extreme anonymity of MTurk, the subjects behavior
was consistent with findings from the standard laboratory. The studies demonstrate
the power of MTurk to quickly and cheaply give insights into human behavior using
both traditional laboratory-style experiments and field experiments.

4 Internal validity
It is reassuring that our experiments achieved results consistent with those of physical laboratories, but we make an independent case for the internal validity of online experiments. Internal validity requires that subjects are appropriately assigned

