J.J. Horton et al.
Fig. 2 Reading a religious
passage significantly increases
prisoners dilemma cooperation
among those who have had an
experience that convinced them
of the existence of God, but not
among those who have not had
such an experience. Error bars
indicate standard error of the
mean

of previous studies regarding the effectiveness of implicit religious primes for promoting cooperation (Benjamin et al. 2010b).8 We demonstrate that the principle of
priming can be observed with MTurk and that the effectiveness of the prime can vary
systematically, depending on the characteristics of the reader.
3.4 Qualitative replication: framing
Traditional economic models assume that individuals are fully rational in making
decisionsthat people will always choose the option that maximizes their utility,
which is wholly-defined in terms of outcomes. Therefore, decision-making should be
consistent, and an individual should make the same choice when faced with equivalent decision problems. However, as the watershed experiment of Tversky and Kahneman (1981) (hereafter TK) demonstrated, this is not the case. TK introduced the
concept of framing: that presenting two numerically equivalent situations with different language can lead to dramatic differences in stated preferences. In our current
experiment, we replicated the framing effect demonstrated by TK on MTurk.9
In TKs canonical example, subjects read one of two hypothetical scenarios. Half
of the subjects were given the following Problem 1:
Imagine that the United States is preparing for the outbreak of an unusual Asian
disease, which is expected to kill 600 people. Two alternative programs to combat the disease have been proposed. Assume that the exact scientific estimates
of the consequences of the programs are as follows: If Program A is adopted,
200 people will be saved. If Program B is adopted, there is 1
3 probability that
probability
that
no
people
will
be saved.
600 people will be saved and 2
3
8 Note that the prime had a marginally significant negative effect on subjects who had not had an experience

which convinced them of the existence of God ( 2 test, p = 0.080). It is conceivable that some of these
subjects were antagonized by a message wrapped in religious language. The difference between the effect
on believers and nonbelievers is highly significant, as indicated by the interaction term in the regression
above (p = 0.008). The possible counterproductive effect on nonbelievers may help explain the mixed
results of previous studies.
9 This is the second replication of this result on MTurk. Gabriele Paolacci also performed this experiment

and reported the results on his blog, http://experimentalturk.wordpress.com/2009/11/06/asian-disease.

