J.J. Horton et al.

need to obtain informed consent from subjects prior to participation. Institutions vary
in their requirements, but we are hopeful that boards will approve experimenter-asemployer studies where the task and payments fall within the range of what normally
occurs on the labor market, as they often do for traditional, offline field experiments.
Certain kinds of surveys also work well online, as we will discuss below.
Laboratory-type games are certainly possible, but they have a number of limitations,
as discussed above, some of which will likely be overcome by better software, while
others will remain intractable due to the inherent nature of the Internet.
6.1 Experimenter-as-employer
In many offline field experiments, the researcher participates in the market as an
employer, either by creating a new firm or by piggy-backing on an existing firm
and directing its policies. Worker-subjects perform a real-effort task, such as stuffing
envelopes, picking fruit, planting trees, etc. The manipulation is usually of such elements as the payment scheme, team composition or framing. The online environment
makes it easy to conduct experiments involving such manipulations, so long as the
task requires no physical presence. Fortunately, there are plenty of tasks that meet
this requirement, such as data entry, content creation and image labeling.
Subjects are simply recruited from the existing market to perform a task, one
equivalent to many tasks required by real employers. They are then randomly assigned to groups. The objective might be to test the role of alternative incentive
schemes or to determine how payment affects quality of performance. Depending
upon institutional review board requirements, the subjects might not need to be notified that the task is an experiment.
For the actual online task, it is obviously impossible to have workers perform
something physical, yet certain real-effort tasks are well-suited to online completion.
We have used data entry tasks (namely transcribing text from a document) and image
labeling tasks. Both are common tasks on MTurk, and are easily understood by workers. The advantage of text transcription is that it has an unambiguous error metric if
the true text is known. The advantage of labeling is that if subjects can decide how
many labels to produce, creating the variation in the output measure needed for many
experiments.
The paired survey represents a variant of the experimenter-as-employer paradigm.
It is used when one wants to know how some feature of the way a question is posed
affects responses. While this kind of experiment is very simple, it can yield powerful conclusions. For example, some of Tversky and Kahnemans classic work on
framing, which we replicated, used the paired-survey method to show that people
viewed objectively identical scenarios quite differently depending upon whether a
two-component outcome was framed to focus on the gain or loss component. This
simple survey design yielded an insight that has subsequently been shown to be widespread and important. MTurk is ideal for this kind of research.
6.2 Laboratory-type games online
Some of the most successful examples of experimental social science use simple
interactive games, such as the trust game, the prisoners dilemma and market games.

