The online laboratory: conducting experiments in a real labor market

development is the emergence of online labor markets. In these markets, workers
from around the world perform tasks amenable to remote completion, such as data
entry, computer programming, graphic design and clerical work (Frei 2009). These
markets, although designed for other purposes, make it possible to recruit large numbers of subjects who are ready and able to participate in experiments.
These recruited subjects have the attractive properties of being diverse and not
experiment-savvy. But their key characteristic is that they will participate in the
experiment within the context of an online labor market. This is critical, because
the creators of online labor markets—for their own, non-experimental purposes—
have built their platforms in a way that grants experimenters the control needed for
valid causal inference. In particular, the creators of these markets have made it easy
to make individual-specific payments, screen out users who do not have valid accounts with the market and prevent workers/subjects from communicating with each
other.
Despite the benefits they offer, online experiments raise issues not frequently encountered in either the laboratory or the field. Just as television shows are not filmed
plays, online experiments are not simply laboratory experiments conducted online.
This paper identifies the major differences and pays close attention to the unique
challenges of online experimentation. Despite the caveats and potential pitfalls, the
value of online experiments is demonstrated by our replications; we quickly, cheaply
and easily reproduce a handful of experimental results known to have external validity. Given that online experiments work, at least for the cases we tried, the logical
next question is why. Much of the material that follows seeks to answer that question.
In Sect. 2 we provide information on online labor markets and discuss in broad
terms how these markets allow researchers to overcome the classic challenges to
causal inference. We also discuss the strengths and inherent limitations of the online
laboratory. In Sect. 3, we successfully reproduce the qualitative characteristics of a
series of classic experimental results, as well as discuss other examples of research
making use of these markets. These confirmations support our basic argument, but
challenges remain. In Sect. 4, we address the primary specific challenges of conducting experiments online, and provide tentative solutions to these challenges. In Sect. 5
we discuss the external validity of online experimental results. In Sect. 6, we analyze
different experimental designs that can be used online. In addition to creating exciting
opportunities for research, online experiments also pose particular ethical challenges.
They are the subject of Sect. 7. We conclude in Sect. 8 with our thoughts on the future
of the online laboratory.

2 Overview of experimentation in online labor markets
At present, the most useful online labor markets, from an experimentation standpoint,
are “all-purpose” labor markets where buyers contract with individual sellers (Horton
2010). Some of the larger markets in this category include oDesk, Freelancer, Elance,

