The online laboratory: conducting experiments in a real labor market

Subject interactions are easy to arrange in physical laboratory experiments, because
all the subjects play at once. In online labor markets, by contrast, subjects often arrive
at the experiment over the course of several hours or days, making subject interactions
difficult. There are several solutions to the difficulty presently available and many
more under development.
When subjects are asynchronous, the widely used strategy method (Selten 1967)
players report what they would do in various hypothetical situationscan identify
outcomes in interactive situations. This was the method we employed when performing our own trust-game and ultimatum-game experiments (not yet published). There
is some evidence that subjects play hot games (those that do not use the strategy method) differently (Brandts and Charness 2000). Ideally, new software developments will allow for hot interactive games.
If the reliability of the strategy method is accepted, implementation of online experiments is simple. The experimenter needs only to simulate play once all responses
have been received. This method also has the advantage of giving more data points.
For example, in contrast to a hot ultimatum game where we can only observe accept or reject responses from the second player, in the cold strategy-method
game, we can see the subjects responses to several offers because they must answer
the question Would you accept X? for several X values.
The online laboratory allows for hot play if sufficiently large numbers of respondents can be matched up as they arrive. Experiments have shown that it is possible
to get MTurk workers to wait around for another player.18 This kind of approach requires that the experimenter establish some rules for payment if a match cannot be
found in a suitable amount of time. Another approach is to pay workers to come back
to a website at a certain time to play the game. The great advantage of this method
is that it closely replicates the current laboratory experience. This method requires
web-based interfaces for games. Work at MIT to develop Seaweed, a web-based
experimental platform, represents a strong step in this direction (Chilton et al. 2009).
Building such platforms should be a top priority for the experimental social science
community.

7 Ethics and community
The online laboratory raises new ethical issues. However, it also creates opportunities
for setting higher standards of evidence and for fostering greater collaboration among
social scientists, both in terms of sharing materials and in the adversarial collaboration of replication studies, which are now far easier to perform.
7.1 Ethical implications of moving towards a bench science
Online experiments can now propel certain subfields in the social sciences substantially toward bench science. It is now remarkably easy to design, launch and analyze
18 See this blog post report of the experiment by Lydia Chilton: http://groups.csail.mit.edu/uid/

deneme/?p=483.

