J.J. Horton et al.

For “changes” research (for example, does mercury cause autism? Do angry individuals take more risks? Do wage reductions reduce output?), the critical concern is
the sign of the change’s effect; the precise magnitude of the effect is often secondary.
Once a phenomenon has been identified, “changes” research might make “levels” research desirable to estimate magnitudes for the specific populations of interest. These
two kinds of empirical research often use similar methods and even the same data
sources, but one suffers greatly when subject pools are unrepresentative, the other
much less so.
Laboratory investigations are particularly helpful in “changes” research that seeks
to identify phenomena or to elucidate causal mechanisms. Before we even have a
well-formed theory to test, we may want to run experiments simply to collect more
data on phenomena. This kind of research requires an iterative process of generating
hypotheses, testing them, examining the data and then discarding hypotheses. More
tests then follow and so on. Because the search space is often large, numerous cycles
are needed, which gives the online laboratory an advantage due to its low costs and
speedy accretion of subjects.15
5.3 Interpreting differences between results from online and physical laboratories
We have found good agreement between our results and those obtained through traditional means. Nonetheless, there are likely to be measurable differences between
results in online and physical laboratory experiments (Eckel and Wilson 2006). How
should one interpret cross-domain differences, assuming they appear to be systematic
and reproducible?
First, systematic differences would create puzzles, which can lead to progress. In
this sense, the online laboratory can complement conventional methods—a point emphasized by Harrison and List (2004) in the context of comparing laboratory and field
experiments. To give an example, suppose that future experiments find that subjects
donate less in an online dictator game than in person. This would tell us something
interesting and add to our knowledge. It would not mean that the Internet result is
“wrong,” assuming that the game is set up properly. The situation is analogous to finding cross-cultural differences in game play (Bohnet et al. 2008; Gneezy et al. 2009;
Herrmann and Thöni 2009). Such results increase our knowledge of the social world;
they are not cautionary tales about the desirability of restricting experimental subjects
to undergraduates at U.S. research universities.
When the Internet was small and few people spent much time online, perhaps it
made sense to treat cross-medium differences as an argument against utilizing evidence from online domains. Today, however, Internet-mediated social interactions
are no longer a strange experience, one familiar to only a tiny fraction of the population.16
15 It also increases the danger of “hypothesis mining”—trying out many hypotheses and reporting those

that work, quite likely only by chance.
16 A recent New York Times article, “If Your Kids Are Awake, They’re Probably Online,” reported that

American kids spend an average of seven to eight hours per day online.

