J.J. Horton et al.

Keywords Experimentation · Online labor markets · Prisoner’s dilemma · Field
experiment · Internet
JEL Classification J2 · C93 · C91 · C92 · C70

1 Introduction
Some of the first experiments in economics were conducted in the late 1940s to test
predictions from the emerging field of game theory. While the research questions
were complex, the tools were simple; paper, pencils, blackboards and marbles were
sufficient instruments to present stimuli and capture subjects’ choices and actions.1
By the early 1990s, researchers had developed tools for conducting experiments
over local computer networks, with subjects receiving stimuli and making decisions
via computer terminal (Fischbacher 2007). This development made it easier to carry
out game play and collect data. However, the advantages of computer-mediation were
not merely logistical; experimenters also gained greater control over the flow of information and thereby reduced the relevance of potentially confounding factors. For
these reasons, computer-mediation quickly became the primary means for conducting
laboratory experiments.
Today, human subjects are still brought into physical laboratories despite the fact
that many, if not most, computer-mediated experiments can easily be conducted over
the Internet. Online participation would spare experimenters the expenses of physically aggregating subjects and compensating them for travel. This in turn would allow
for larger and longer games with potentially more diverse subjects. Social scientists
recognized these advantages more than a decade ago. In 1997, the National Science
Foundation sponsored a workshop called NetLab to investigate the potential of online experimentation (Bainbridge 2007). That workshop’s report identified the major
advantages of online experimentation and optimistically concluded:
If the nascent laboratory experimental approach is encouraged and is coupled
with new technological innovations, then the SBE [social, behavioral, and economic sciences] disciplines will be primed for major scientific advances.
The “if” in that conclusion hinged on some rather mundane obstacles: funding,
particularly for software development, and technical training. Thirteen years have
passed; and yet, despite an explosion in the size, usage, and capabilities of the Internet, online experiments are still relatively rare, particularly in economics. During the
same period, both field and traditional laboratory experiments have become far more
common (Levitt and List 2009). We believe that the practical problems of (1) recruiting subjects and paying them securely and (2) assuring internal validity—and
not those of funding or training constraints—have limited the development of online
experimentation.
In this paper, we argue that a recent development effectively and efficiently addresses both the recruitment/payment problem and the internal validity problem. This
1 For an historical perspective on early experimentation in economics, see Kagel et al. (1995).

