J.J. Horton et al.

to groups, that selective attrition is ruled out, and that subjects are unable either to
interact with or influence one another. Each of these concerns is magnified in online
settings, but fortunately there are measures that can overcome or at least mitigate
these challenges.
4.1 Unique and independent observations
Because of the inherent anonymity of the Internet, would-be experimenters are rightly
concerned that subjects might participate multiple times in the same experiment. Fortunately, the creators of online labor markets have their own strong financial incentives to prevent users from having multiple accounts (which would be needed for
repeated participation), and all major markets use some combination of terms-of-use
agreements and technical approaches to prevent multiple accounts.11
Our experience to date indicates they have been successful. Though vigilant to
the possibility, we have detected very low numbers of people with multiple accounts
(detected via use of cookies or IP address logging), though we have heard anecdotes
of a few technically savvy users defeating these features.
Our view is that multiple accounts surely exist, but that they are a negligible threat
in most online labor markets and are likely to remain so. As in any well-designed regulatory scheme, the steps taken by those who run the sites in online labor markets—
and hence in online laboratories—raise the price of prohibited behavior. Rendering
undesired behavior impossible is unrealistic, but it is possible to make such behavior
highly unlikely. Furthermore, the emergence of online labor markets where subjects
are non-anonymous and can easily be contacted (such as oDesk, Elance and Freelancer) provide the researcher with options to reduce the risks associated with less
controlled sites like MTurk.
4.2 Appropriate assignment
To be certain that a treatment is having a causal effect on some outcome, subjects
must be assigned to treatment and control groups in a way unrelated to how they
will react to a treatment. Randomization is intended to meet this goal, but by chance
even randomization can lead to experimental groups that differ systematically, particularly if subjects differ on characteristics strongly correlated with the outcome. One
approach to this problem is to include pre-treatment variables as regressors, despite
randomization. Even better, if we have complete control over assignment, as we do in
the online laboratory, we can preemptively avoid the pre-treatment differences problem by using a blocking design, where we stratify on factors that correlate strongly
with outcomes. Such a design creates similar groups on the basis of potentially important factors, and then applies the treatments within each group.
In online settings where subjects are recruited sequentially, we can in principle
stratify subjects on any demographic characteristic we care to measure. In all of our
11 Some sites require workers to install custom software; presumably this software can detect whether

multiple copies of the software are being run on the same computer. Other sites charge membership fees
or flat fees for fund transfers, both of which raise the costs of keeping multiple accounts.

