The online laboratory: conducting experiments in a real labor market

task or game using an economic frame of mind. Even in non-economic scenarios,
lack of subject awareness is useful, as their uninformed state rules out experimenter
effects and John Henry effects.3
When subjects are aware they are in an experiment, they might try to learn about
the conditions of experimental groups. Subjects in a less desirable treatment might
be upset by their bad luck, which might affect their behaviors. Cook and Campbell
(1979) call this demoralization. Furthermore, even if subjects remain unaware of
an experiment and of the nature of the treatment, agents of the experimenter might
affect outcomes through their own initiative, such as by compensatory equalization
(i.e., intervening to make the outcomes of the different groups more similar and hence
fairer). In online experiments in which subjects have no knowledge of the treatments received by others, the threat of demoralization is minimal, and since carrying
out online experiments generally requires no human agent, unauthorized interventions like compensatory equalization are unlikely.
2.2 Obtaining control and promoting trust
Even though online labor markets provide a pool of would-be subjects with some
desirable characteristics, having subjects alone is not sufficient for the conduct of an
experiment. Experimenters need to be able to uniquely identify these subjects, convey
instructions, collect responses and make payments, while being confident that their
intended actions are actually being implemented properly. Fortunately, many of the
primary concerns of would-be experimenters mirror the concerns of the creators and
customers of online labor markets. Employers worry that workers with multiple accounts might place phony bids or manipulate the reputation system by leaving phony
feedback. Similarly, experimenters worry that a subject with multiple accounts might
participate in an experiment multiple times. The creators of online labor markets do
not want workers to communicate with each other, as that could lead to collusion.
Experimenters also worry about workers discussing the details of experiments with
each other and possibly colluding. Finally, both employers and experimenters need
ways to pay individuals precise amounts of money as rewards for their actions and
decisions.
It is now easy to hire and pay workers within the context of online labor markets, yet still quite difficult to do the same online, but outside of these markets. The
problem is not technological. The type and quality of communicationemail, instant messenger services, voice-over-IPdo not depend on whether the buyer and
seller are working inside or outside the online market, and banks have been transferring funds electronically for decades. The problem is that it is difficult to create trust
among strangers. Trust is an issue not only for would-be trading partners, but also for
would-be experimenters.
The validity of economics experiments depends heavily upon trust, particularly
subjects trust that the promulgated rules will be followed and that all stated facts
3 Experimenter effects are created when subjects try to produce the effect they believe the experimenters

expect; John Henry effects are created when subjects exert great effort because they treat the experiment
like a competitive contest.

