The online laboratory: conducting experiments in a real labor market
Fig. 4 Degree of stated trust in
experimenter instructions
regarding payoffs among MTurk
workers and subjects recruited
from the Harvard Decision
Sciences Laboratory

5.4 Comparison of beliefs of online and offline subjects
In economic experiments, participants must believe that payoffs will be determined
as the experimenter describes. We wished to assess how MTurk workers compare to
participants in traditional lab experiments in their level of experimenter trust. Thus,
we conducted a survey receiving responses from 205 workers on MTurk and 192
members of the Harvard Decision Sciences Laboratory subjects pool (a lab that prohibits deception).17 Participants indicated the extent to which they trusted that they
would be paid as described in the instructions using a 7-point Likert scale, with 7
being the maximum trust level.
Responses are shown in Fig. 4. Although there is lower trust among MTurk workers, the mean level of trust is comparable and highest trust response was modal for
both groups. The mean levels of trust were 5.41 for MTurk workers and 5.74 for lab
subjects. The difference was 0.19 standard deviations, and represented only a modest
difference in trust levels, though one that was strongly statistically significant using a
rank-rum test (p = 0.004). These survey results indicate that trust of experimenters is
fairly high on average. The physical lab had more “extreme” subjects—very trusting
and very untrusting—and fewer in the middle.

6 Experimental designs
Certain kinds of research designs work better than others online. One design that
works well is the experimenter-as-employer natural field experiment. For such experiments, the interaction is completely unremarkable from the perspective of online
subjects, who have no idea they are involved in an experiment. Of course, for this
kind of experiment, the researcher’s institutional review board (IRB) must waive the
17 MTurk subjects were paid $0.10 for responding; lab pool subjects received no payment.

